A game of chess
###############
:date: 2011-01-23 04:15
:author: admin
:category: story
:slug: a-game-of-chess

He couldn't sleep. No use fighting it. Counting sheep could take you
only so far into the sandman's kingdom.Listening to music could clear
his head only so much. Drinking water had its limits. Yeah, there was
nothing he could do to fight it. Might as well get something done.

He got up from the bed and walked to his laptop. The bright light
pierced the darkness and stabbed at his eyes. He lowered the brightness
and opened the document he had left unfinished a few hours back. His
fingers moved onto the keyboard and started typing. As the letters
started appearing on the screen he felt himself slipping into thought.
This mundane stuff wasn't what he was supposed to do. He could do this
kind of stuff even when he was asleep. It didn't require his brain, just
his fingers. As his fingers moved ceaselessly on the keyboard he started
dreaming of a better life. Oh what he would give to ...

His reverie was broken by a sound from the kitchen. As his brain
processed the sound of breaking plates and a mew his legs started
moving. Cursing the cat he reached the kitchen to find milk all over the
floor. "No use crying over spilt milk", he grumbled. He mopped the floor
and threw the broken vessel into the dustbin. It was easier when she was
around. I didn't have to know anything. He thought with bitterness.

It was in fact an year before the day when she had left him there. His
unkempt beard stood testimony to the fact that he had trouble adjusting
to life ever since. Not used to the daily chores he had found himself
less and less inclined to take care of his house. One had to wade
through the stink of neglect to get around the house. Clothes and
various other items were strewn haphazardly everywhere. Unwashed dishes
and a faint smell hinting at the age of uneaten pizza slice in the box
hung about the kitchen. A closer inspection would reveal ants scurrying
about on some sticky residue left behind on the kitchen floor. Not that
he cared.

As he walked back to his laptop he looked at the clock. The clock and
the calendar next to it reminded him that it was now his birthday. No
phone calls. Not that he expected any. The past one year seemed to pass
through his mind's eye. It seemed like eternity.

As he sat down once again in front of his laptop and numbed his mind for
the work ahead he felt a sudden chill. He checked if any of the windows
he could see from his place were open. All closed. Then why the sudden
chill? "That would be because of me", said the cloaked figure who had
suddenly appeared behind him. He jumped out of the chair in shock and
hit his legs on the table. It was still smarting when he shouted at the
figure, "What? Who? How?".

"Very articulate you are.", Death said.

"Who are you? What are you doing here? How did you get in?"

"Good good. For a moment I thought I was in the wrong house", Death
grinned. Except you couldn't make that out. The hood put his face in
shadow.

"You haven't answered my question".

"Quite right. That was quicker than the others", Death said and not
without a slight sense of wonder.

"Others? What others? You get the hell out of my house".

"And I thought you would be more intelligent than the usual lot. But
you're just like the rest of them. I had a lot of expectations you know.
She told me a great deal about you.", Death said.

Thoroughly confused was a feeling he was not used to. That was the kind
of feeling that others felt when he talked to them. He vaguely noticed
the figure looking at his wrist watch and unconsciously realised who it
was that stood before him. No, this wouldn't do. It wasn't time. Think
think think! What's the use of reading so many books and watching so
many movies. There must be something out there. Some loophole...

"I challenge you toÂ  a game of chess", he announced with what he hoped
was a challenging tone.

"What!". Confusion passed through Death's face. The shadow did not let
the expression out. "OK. Fine. Whatever". He conjured out a chess board
from thin air.

"Time to put all my chess skills to use", he thought and moved the pawn
two squares ahead.

And so the game continued. Death was a smart player, but so was he. The
game continued for an hour.

"Checkmate", he announced with relief clearly showing through in his
voice.

"Hmm. Nice match. Haven't been beaten in a long time. Let's go then",
Death said.

"Wait. I beat you in a game. You have to let me stay", he pleaded.

"What nonsense". Death threw his lasso and pulled the soul away from the
body. As he stuffed the soul into his sack he wondered - "Why do so many
people keep challenging me to chess and expect me to let them stay when
they win?! These humans are crazy".

Death never knew why that was.
