Changes to tatkal rules
#######################
:date: 2011-11-15 15:14
:author: admin
:category: misc
:slug: changes-to-tatkal-rules

Some changes have been made to tatkal rules. Tatkal booking will now
start only 1 day before journey date. Earlier this was 2 days. For
example, if you need to book a tatkal ticket for your journey on Nov 17
you have to book your ticket on Nov 16 and not Nov 15th as it was
previously. This was announced by minister Dinesh Trivedi on November
12, 2011.There will be no refund on confirmed tatkal tickets.At the time
of booking we are required to provide the details of the identity card
we would be carrying at the time of journey. The reservation chart will
contain the details of the identity card being carried. You can also
book only 4 berths per tatkal ticket as opposed to 6 earlier.

These new rules have been introduced to prevent misuse of tatkal by
agents and louts. Whether these will actually prevent misuse remains to
be seen. The idea of the ministry is to allow only genuine passengers to
book tatkal tickets in case of emergency.

If you have booked a waiting list ticket and are waiting for it to get
confirmed (or not) to book a tatkal ticket, then the extra one day will
help you. Most of the cancellations happen in the last 2 - 3 days before
the journey. Now this will make it easier to decide if we want to book a
tatkal ticket or not.

The stricter rules also mean that you need to make sure beforehand which
identity card you'll be carrying with you. Previously, booking an online
ticket required the user to give the identity card details at the time
of booking the ticket. The Railways amended this rule allowing any one
passenger to carry an identity card. No longer was the identity card
details required at the time of booking. Now we have a situation where
the identity card details are required at the time of booking for Tatkal
tickets only.

So take extra care when you `book a tatkal
ticket <http://gingerjoos.com/blog/misc/booking-tatkal-tickets-on-irctc-the-supercool-way>`__
from now. Do check if you can get the ticket through the general quota.

Update : As per the latest `notification in the IRCTC
site <https://www.irctc.co.in/alert_updates.htm>`__ -

1. The Advance Reservation Period (ARP) of Tatkal scheme is reduced from
two days to one day excluding the day of journey from the train
originating station. For example, if train is to depart from the
originating station on the second of the month, the Tatkal quota booking
for that particular train will open at 08:00 hrs on the first of the
month from originating station.

2. For booking Tatkal e-tickets, the passenger shall enter the ID proof
type and number, which is to be used for travel. These details will be
printed on the ERS/VRM as well as in the reservation chart.

3. During the journey, the passenger, whose identity card number has
been indicated on the ticket, will have to produce original proof of
identity indicated on the ticket, failing which all the passengers
booked on the ticket shall be treated as travelling without ticket and
charged accordingly.

4. Maximum of four passengers per PNR can be booked on Tatkal e-tickets.

5. No refund will be granted on cancellation of confirmed Tatkal ticket
except in case of circumstance mentioned in para 2 of instructions
contained in Commercial Circular no. 53 of 2006 issued vide letter no.
2006/TGI-I/20/P/Tatkal, dated 30.06.2006.
