Ee Adutha Kaalathu
##################
:date: 2012-03-28 01:53
:author: admin
:category: review
:slug: ee-adutha-kaalathu

Sometimes things come together as if magically. Destiny, luck,
coincidence.. whatever you call it, things just seem to lock into place.
It's all right at the end, the good guys win and the bad guys lose. This
is the theme of Ee Adutha Kaalathu (In Recent Times) a Malayalam movie
released in recent times.

The film shows you multiple threads. You bite hoping it tastes good. The
movie drags on and on. You look at the watch anticipating the interval.
Then the script knocks you over suddenly and then cuts to the interval.
The slow pace of the first half is improved upon in the second half.
After a few tense moments the movie comes to a close all movies are
supposed to - with the good rewarded and the evil vanquished. Go into
the theatre expecting three - quarters of the movie to be slow, please.
The way things come together is worth it.

This is not your regular movie with action and romance. The script
writer and director tries to tell a good tale and I must say they
succeed. The movie touches on themes like poverty, frustration of the
married Indian woman, sex rackets and sexual impotence. We come across
the husband who hides his impotence by ill treating his wife and acting
out fake "affairs" in front of her. The yellow press is not spared, with
the script writer showing his disdain for them by creating a dislikable
character well played by Jagathi Sreekumar. Most of the actors are
competent with some of the stalwarts like Indrajith displaying a fine
performance. Indrajith's name in the starting credits was received with
well deserved applause - he seems to have made character driven roles
his forte.

Murali Gopy has penned the script with skill. He also dons the
greasepaint, essaying a major character with great skill. It is unlikely
to be an accident that he chose to essay that particular character as it
is quite clear the lovingness with which that character is detailed. The
character stands out with his frustration and quirks. The writer
bringing it alive on screen is indeed a treat to watch.

Arun Kumar directs and edits this movie. He presents the brilliant
script really well. There does seem to be a few rough edges that I
expect he will polish. His previous attempt at direction - Cocktail -
justifiably did well in the box office.

Anoop Menon's presence in a film has come to be seen by some as a
weatherwane of sorts. The actor tends to be selective and shows up in
really good movies. In this movie too he plays the character of the
pompous Commissioner of police really well. Contrast this with another
Commissioner who has set out to blast our eardrums with the err.. King!

Overall I would definitely recommend this movie. Go ahead and watch it -
Malayalam cinema is still alive! :)
