Extrapulmonary Tuberculosis : patient's perspective
###################################################
:date: 2012-05-24 22:34
:author: admin
:category: health
:slug: extrapulmonary-tuberculosis

When you hear about Tuberculosis you immediately think of a guy coughing
blood and slowly dying. OK, maybe not dying. You wouldn't be wrong
either, most of the time. However there are situations where the
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (the bacterium which causes TB) does not
affect the lungs. The bacterium is actually not all that picky and you
can get TB pretty much anywhere in your body, except maybe the heart.
When it's outside of your lungs it's called Extrapulmonary Tuberculosis
or EPTB. Yes, I didn't know this either. Until I got diagnosed with it
myself, that is.

Here is what it looks like from the perspective of a guy who has the
damn thing.

Extrapulmonary Tuberculosis symptoms or how I was diagnosed with it
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

EPTB does not have a lot of symptoms. My version of EPTB affected my
`lymph nodes <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lymph_node>`__. EPTB does not
cause coughing.

I had a swelling in my underarm. This was a big solid mass. I showed the
doc and the doc told me it was an
`Abscess <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abscess>`__. I waited more than I
should've before seeing the doc and it had swollen up really big and
deep inside. The doc then proceeded to cut a hole there and drained out
the stuff. I was told to take antibiotics for 5 days and told to make
sure I dressed the surgery wound properly until it healed. This involved
cleaning the wound with
`saline <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saline_%28medicine%29>`__ and
gauze, and then closing it with a gauze pad and
`micropore <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microporous_material>`__.

Unfortunately, the wound didn't come around to healing fully. After a
few months a second swelling appeared one or two centimeters from the
wound. The swelling had burst and hurt. I consulted the surgeon again.
The doc then cut the wound a bit more and took some sample to be sent
for biopsy. The biopsy result showed that there was some chronic issue.
He mentioned some name which I didn't catch, but the essence of the
matter is that it would keep appearing. So I had another procedure and
the surgeon removed the second abscess. While removing it they found an
enlarged lymph node. The lymph node is vital to the body's defence and
is an immune organ. Basically it's a storehouse. They removed that too
and sent it for biopsy. I was told that the most likely cause for
something like this in India was TB. The biopsy confirmed it.

Treatment
~~~~~~~~~

I was referred to the pulmonary department. I had to take a chest X-Ray
to make sure I didn't have pulmonary TB (I didn't). I was prescribed 3
medicines - `Rifampicin <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rifampicin>`__ +
`Isoniazid <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isoniazid>`__ (before food),
`Ethambutol <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethambutol>`__ and
`Pyrazinamide <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pyrazinamide>`__. I have to
take medicines regularly for 6 months. I have been asked to see the doc
again after 2 months. I have also been asked to take a `Liver Function
Test <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liver_function_tests>`__ (S
Bilirubin, SGOT and SGPT) every 2 weeks for 2 months. This is because
the medicines I take can have an adverse effect on my liver. The tests
will indicate if something is going wrong. Other possible side - effects
include nausea and vomiting. The sinus may swell as well. Urine will
turn dark because of the medicines. No adverse effects so far from the
medications. Touch wood!

If you have TB, don't panic. Make sure to take the medicines regularly
and all will be fine. Get well soon!

Update : After 2 months of medication the doc dropped 2 medicines off my
list. Now I'm only on Rifampicin.

Update 2 : A touching and interesting story of a `person who lost his
memory due to Tubercular
Meningitis <http://www.facebookstories.com/stories/32/mayank-sharma-his-illness-and-recovery>`__.
An excerpt :

    Tuberculosis is a bacterial disease passed from person to person
    through the air, but the majority of people carrying the germs never
    actually develop the disease. Instead, it lurks, waiting until it's
    agitated by a weakened immune system; some can harbor it more than
    30 years before it's activated, others can stave it off forever.

**Disclaimer** : *I'm not a health professional. Heck, I didn't even
study biology after class 10. Do not consider this post as anything
vaguely, remotely related to medical advice. Consult a doctor
immediately if you think you have TB. The materials contained here are
not intended to be used for the diagnosis or treatment of a health
problem or as a substitute for consulting a licensed medical
professional. Health information should always be carefully reviewed
with your health care provider. I will not be held responsible for
misuse of information or any adverse effects of recommendations stated
here.*
