Restaurant review : Four Seasons, Indiranagar
#############################################
:date: 2011-07-29 23:50
:author: admin
:category: food
:tags: bangalore, Indiranagar, restaurant
:slug: restaurant-review-four-seasons-indiranagar

Hi, reader. How do you do? Well fed and well watered I hope. If not, you
should stop reading. That's right. Go read something else, please. You
probably won't be able to take this post. You're on a diet. What are you
waiting for - get the hell outta here before you succumb to your tongue!

Today, i.e. July 29 2011, a new restaurant opened up in Indiranagar,
Bangalore. Goes by the name of Four Seasons. What the name has to do
with the food there I can tell you not. What I can tell you is how good
the food there is. This I now proceed to do without further ado.

I walked into the place and noticed that only a few were there. People
were just arriving. This was a good sign. The food would come faster.
The ambiance was nothing fancy. Simple, but nice. The menu also stuck to
that theme. Rather simplistic, but the highlight of the menu turned out
to be the gorgeous pictures of the dishes listed. There were no fancy
descriptions next to the items. There were a fair number of items, less
organised in the menu than I would've liked. However, a person like me
worries less about these things and more about the "meat of the matter",
in a manner of speaking. Yes, how good is the food?

A quick perusal and I noted that most dishes were North Indian or
Arabic/Lebanese. With me were 2 of my friends. One a vegetarian and the
other a non - vegetarian. I was a veggie for the day. We started with
the err.. starters. Both were vegetarian - Veg Shangri La and some
Middle Eastern dish with an unpronounceable name. The Middle Eastern
dish consisted of dice cut vegetables sprinkled with salt, powdered
spices and soaked in Olive Oil. This was nice. As nice as it can get -
but would be a bonus for the health conscious I suppose. The Shangri La
consisted of vegetables fried and coated with a chinese sauce. It had a
slight sweet taste and tested quite nice. I would heartily recommend
this one.

Since this was the opening night we were treated to some excellent water
melon juice at first. Quite sweet and fresh. Brought up my spirits in an
instant.

We moved on to the main course. The non - vegetarian dish ordered was
once again a Middle Eastern dish with an unpronounceable name.
Essentially it was a mutton biriyani. I cannot vouch for the overall
taste, though the rice was quite tasty. As with all the dishes of the
day the spice was neither in excess nor too mild. Just right. For the
veggies we had roti and mixed veg curry. The roti was decent. The curry
though was a different thing altogether. It was rich and thick. It
excited different parts of my tongue, but there was no cacophony. It was
a symphony of taste - the right amount of different spices and a hint of
sweetness. The regular vegetables - potatoes, cauliflower, carrot etc.
provided a good base. Together it made for a wonderful dish. Though one
does not expect wondrous feeling from a dish with such a commonplace
name, it managed to make me truly happy. Full marks to the chef for this
one.

A note about the service. There was no one at the front desk to welcome
you and escort you to your table. It's not that kind of place. But the
steward was gracious and made excellent suggestions regarding the dish
to order. There were hiccups you encounter occasionally in any
restaurant. When we asked for roti, naan was brought. We asked for
normal water, mineral water was brought. The bottle was left unopened on
the table - one would've expected that they would serve the contents of
the bottle. However, the pleasant demeanour of the steward more than
made up for these minor faux pas.

However, the real Pièce de résistance was just hiding around the corner.
We indicated that we were done. Though it took a while, we were brought
complementary desserts. Let me tell you my friend, I will return to that
place and will keep doing so because of this dessert. It was rather
simple - fresh apricots cocooned in custard on top of a layer of
pudding. But the combination was so good that I threw my now broken diet
out of the window and had one and half cups of this delectable dessert.
It was quite cold and everything combined so well that I could cry tears
of joy. I could sing, mon ami. Why do you think I felt like writing a
review - the epitome of laziness that is me! The blame falls squarely on
that vile dish. It ensnared my senses and befuddled my brain. I went
into the place with a long face, the troubles of the day weighing me
down. I left the place a new man, invigorated and happy as a man can be.

The next time I go there I will meet the magician they call Chef and
shake him warmly by the hand. Ladies and Gentlemen, if your tongue
craves for some happiness do send it to this place.

 

Location : Opposite the Peter England showroom in 100 ft road near the
KFC signal, Bangalore
