Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara
########################
:date: 2011-07-31 00:21
:author: admin
:category: review
:slug: zindagi-na-milegi-dobara

` <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zindagi_Na_Milegi_Dobara>`__


The film begins with Kabir ( Abhay Deol ) proposing to Natasha ( Kalki
Koechlin, recently married to Anurag Kashyap ). Before Kabir gets
married to Natasha he wants to go on a 3 week trip to Spain with his
buddies Imraan ( Farhan Akhtar ) and Arjun ( Hrithink Roshan ). The "3
musketeers" had made a pact with each other to go on a trip where they
would surprise each other with an adventure sport of each one's choice
that the others had to participate in. The 3 arrive in Spain and
complete 3 adventure sports. Along the way they meet Laila ( Katrina
Kaif ) who is a part - time driving instructor. During the trip each of
the friends learn about life and come out the better. How they do so
during the journey is what forms the film.


The movie is beautifully picturised. One of the sponsors is Spain
Tourism and the movie provides a very good promo of this beautiful
country. Not only is the scenic beauty captured well, but attractions of
Spain like La Tomatina festival are also highlighted.

The movie deals mainly with relationships and life. Occasionally the
film can get mildly preachy - particularly the scenes where Katrina's
character teaches Arjun how to live life. Even in such scenes the
philosophy does not stick out but rather blends in. By sending demon's
in each of the character's ways and by portraying their transformation
with each adventure they face the movie shows a mirror to our own fears
and insecurities. Each adventure that the characters participate in
proves to be a turning point for one of the characters who must take his
fear head on. Towards the end the characters take on the ultimate of
fears - the fear of death.

The characters have been crafted beautifully by Zoya Akhtar ( who is
also the director ) and Reema Katgi. Executed well by the star cast, the
audience is able to appreciate each character and realise why it is that
they do what they do.

The songs in the movie as well as the shayari of Farhan's character have
been penned beautifully by Javed saab. One expects nothing less than the
best from him and he delivers with ease. Shankar - Ehsaan - Loy provide
the beautiful music to Javed saab's words.

Overall it's a nice movie. Do catch it.
